Its nearing the end of February.
Its interesting that we've still got a fire
season here.
The days are getting shorter, the weather
is starting to change, but we've still got
a fire season that people have to be conscious
about.
Its interesting with the days being shorter,
were seeing a slightly different change in
the weather.
I think over the weekend we've seen slightly
cooler, shorter days means a little more moisture
around and we certainly welcome that.
But we haven't seen any change with the fuel
conditions.
That means we've got dry grass and bushland
across Victoria, and that's the key factor
at the moment.
This week we'll see a cooler week, a more
mild week with the potential of lightning
earlier in the week which could mean we have
other starts of fire.
But also we're going to see the potential
for showers and rain, and we certainly welcome
the word about rain.
That will change the landscape dramatically,
and we hope it's widow spread, but that may
not be the case.
So stay tuned to the forecast and the Bureau
will do its best to make sure we get the weather
thats best for us.
The other thing thats interesting to reflect
on is the fire last week in Donnybrooke, a
hot day not a windy day, that saw a grass
fire move three, four, five kilometres an
hour in three hours as sitting right on the
edge of the Metropolitan area and caused a
lot of concern for people in the outer metropolitan
area.
The urban fringe, or what we call the urban
rural interface is something we need to be
very conscious of.
We've done a lot of work since then
in the last week about understanding better
the types of community on the interface.
We know them well, but we actually went and
had a look at a lot more information about
where the schools are, the child care facilities
and we're going to make a real focus, if we
have a fire in that area, in any of those
areas in the next two weeks that we really
do tune a lot closer to the schools, because
I think thats where a lot of the concern was.
If your a parent you'll be looking for what
the kids are doing, if its after 3:30, where
the kids are.
Thats one of the things that we certainly
focused on last week.
To you, as someone who's out there, weather
your a school child or weather your a parent,
think about the school hours, think about
what happens for those two or three hours
after school finishes.
People are on public transport.
Where are hay, what would they do if a fire
started?
What would they do if they couldn't get home
because the bus didn't make it or the train
didn't.
So there are lots of things to think about
and I think thats the action this week, is
to think about what it means to be a person
that lives in urban areas.
Weather it be in Melbourne or some of our
provincial cities, if a fire was near you
and is close to your home that you don't normally
think a fire would be.